README.md, before:

![SendGrid Logo](https://uiux.s3.amazonaws.com/2016-logos/email-logo%402x.png)

[![Travis Badge](https://travis-ci.org/sendgrid/sendgrid-python.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/sendgrid/sendgrid-python)
[![codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/master.svg?style=flat-square&label=Codecov+Coverage)](https://codecov.io/gh/sendgrid/sendgrid-python)
[![Docker Badge](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/sendgrid/sendgrid-python.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/)
[![Email Notifications Badge](https://dx.sendgrid.com/badge/python)](https://dx.sendgrid.com/newsletter/python)
[![MIT licensed](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](./LICENSE.txt)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/sendgrid.svg?style=social&label=Follow)](https://twitter.com/sendgrid)
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/sendgrid/sendgrid-python.svg)](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/graphs/contributors)
[![Open Source Helpers](https://www.codetriage.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/badges/users.svg)](https://www.codetriage.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python)

**NEW:**

* Subscribe to email [notifications](https://dx.sendgrid.com/newsletter/python) for releases and breaking changes.
* Quickly get started with [Docker](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/tree/master/docker).

**This library allows you to quickly and easily use the SendGrid Web API v3 via Python.**

Version 3.X.X+ of this library provides full support for all SendGrid [Web API v3](https://sendgrid.com/docs/API_Reference/Web_API_v3/index.html) endpoints, including the new [v3 /mail/send](https://sendgrid.com/blog/introducing-v3mailsend-sendgrids-new-mail-endpoint).

This library represents the beginning of a new path for SendGrid. We want this library to be community driven and SendGrid led. We need your help to realize this goal. To help make sure we are building the right things in the right order, we ask that you create [issues](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/issues) and [pull requests](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) or simply upvote or comment on existing issues or pull requests.

Please browse the rest of this README for further detail.

We appreciate your continued support, thank you!

# Table of Contents

* [Installation](#installation)
* [Quick Start](#quick-start)
* [Processing Inbound Email](#inbound)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Use Cases](#use-cases)
* [Announcements](#announcements)
* [Roadmap](#roadmap)
* [How to Contribute](#contribute)
* [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
* [About](#about)
* [License](#license)

<a name="installation"></a>

# Installation

## Prerequisites

- Python version 2.6, 2.7, 3.4, 3.5 or 3.6
- The SendGrid service, starting at the [free level](https://sendgrid.com/free?source=sendgrid-python)

## Setup Environment Variables
### Mac

Update the development environment with your [SENDGRID_API_KEY](https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/api_keys) (more info [here](https://sendgrid.com/docs/User_Guide/Settings/api_keys.html)), for example:

```bash
echo "export SENDGRID_API_KEY='YOUR_API_KEY'" > sendgrid.env
echo "sendgrid.env" >> .gitignore
source ./sendgrid.env
```
SendGrid also supports local environment file `.env`. Copy or rename `.env_sample` into `.env` and update [SENDGRID_API_KEY](https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/api_keys) with your key.

### Windows
Temporarily set the environment variable(accessible only during the current cli session):
```bash
set SENDGRID_API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY
```
Permanently set the environment variable(accessible in all subsequent cli sessions):
```bash
setx SENDGRID_API_KEY "YOUR_API_KEY"
```

## Install Package
```bash
pip install sendgrid
```

## Dependencies

- [Python-HTTP-Client](https://github.com/sendgrid/python-http-client)


<a name="quick-start"></a>
# Quick Start

## Hello Email

The following is the minimum needed code to send an email with the [/mail/send Helper](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/tree/master/sendgrid/helpers/mail) ([here](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/examples/helpers/mail_example.py#L9) is a full example):

### With Mail Helper Class

```python
import sendgrid
import os
from sendgrid.helpers.mail import *

sg = sendgrid.SendGridAPIClient(api_key=os.environ.get('SENDGRID_API_KEY'))
from_email = Email("test@example.com")
to_email = To("test@example.com")
subject = "Sending with SendGrid is Fun"
content = Content("text/plain", "and easy to do anywhere, even with Python")
mail = Mail(from_email, to_email, subject, content)
response = sg.client.mail.send.post(request_body=mail.get())
print(response.status_code)
print(response.body)
print(response.headers)
```

The `Mail` constructor creates a [personalization object](https://sendgrid.com/docs/Classroom/Send/v3_Mail_Send/personalizations.html) for you. [Here](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/examples/helpers/mail_example.py#L16) is an example of how to add it.

### Without Mail Helper Class

The following is the minimum needed code to send an email without the /mail/send Helper ([here](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/examples/mail/mail.py#L27) is a full example):

```python
import sendgrid
import os

sg = sendgrid.SendGridAPIClient(api_key=os.environ.get('SENDGRID_API_KEY'))
data = {
  "personalizations": [
    {
      "to": [
        {
          "email": "test@example.com"
        }
      ],
      "subject": "Sending with SendGrid is Fun"
    }
  ],
  "from": {
    "email": "test@example.com"
  },
  "content": [
    {
      "type": "text/plain",
      "value": "and easy to do anywhere, even with Python"
    }
  ]
}
response = sg.client.mail.send.post(request_body=data)
print(response.status_code)
print(response.body)
print(response.headers)
```

## General v3 Web API Usage (With [Fluent Interface](https://sendgrid.com/blog/using-python-to-implement-a-fluent-interface-to-any-rest-api/))

```python
import sendgrid
import os

sg = sendgrid.SendGridAPIClient(api_key=os.environ.get('SENDGRID_API_KEY'))
response = sg.client.suppression.bounces.get()
print(response.status_code)
print(response.body)
print(response.headers)
```

## General v3 Web API Usage (Without Fluent Interface)

```python
import sendgrid
import os

sg = sendgrid.SendGridAPIClient(api_key=os.environ.get('SENDGRID_API_KEY'))
response = sg.client._("suppression/bounces").get()
print(response.status_code)
print(response.body)
print(response.headers)
```

<a name="inbound"></a>
# Processing Inbound Email

Please see [our helper](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/tree/master/sendgrid/helpers/inbound) for utilizing our Inbound Parse webhook.

<a name="usage"></a>
# Usage

- [SendGrid Documentation](https://sendgrid.com/docs/API_Reference/index.html)
- [Library Usage Documentation](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/tree/master/USAGE.md)
- [Example Code](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/tree/master/examples)
- [How-to: Migration from v2 to v3](https://sendgrid.com/docs/Classroom/Send/v3_Mail_Send/how_to_migrate_from_v2_to_v3_mail_send.html)
- [v3 Web API Mail Send Helper](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/tree/master/sendgrid/helpers/mail) - build a request object payload for a v3 /mail/send API call.
- [Processing Inbound Email](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/tree/master/sendgrid/helpers/inbound)

<a name="use-cases"></a>
# Use Cases

[Examples of common API use cases](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/use_cases/README.md), such as how to send an email with a transactional template.

<a name="announcements"></a>
# Announcements

Join an experienced and passionate team that focuses on making an impact. [Opportunities abound](https://sendgrid.com/careers) to grow the product - and grow your career!

Please see our announcement regarding [breaking changes](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/issues/217). Your support is appreciated!

All updates to this library are documented in our [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) and [releases](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/releases). You may also subscribe to email [release notifications](https://dx.sendgrid.com/newsletter/java) for releases and breaking changes.

<a name="roadmap"></a>
# Roadmap

If you are interested in the future direction of this project, please take a look at our open [issues](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/issues) and [pull requests](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/pulls). We would love to hear your feedback.

<a name="contribute"></a>
# How to Contribute

We encourage contribution to our libraries (you might even score some nifty swag), please see our [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) guide for details.

Quick links:

- [Feature Request](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#feature-request)
- [Bug Reports](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#submit-a-bug-report)
- [Improvements to the Codebase](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#improvements-to-the-codebase)
- [Review Pull Requests](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#code-reviews)
- [Sign the CLA to Create a Pull Request](https://cla.sendgrid.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python)

<a name="troubleshooting"></a>
# Troubleshooting

Please see our [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/TROUBLESHOOTING.md) for common library issues.

<a name="about"></a>
# About

sendgrid-python is guided and supported by the SendGrid Developer Experience Team.

Email the Developer Experience Team [here](mailto:dx@sendgrid.com) in case of any queries.

sendgrid-python is maintained and funded by SendGrid, Inc. The names and logos for sendgrid-python are trademarks of SendGrid, Inc.

<a name="license"></a>
# License
[The MIT License (MIT)](LICENSE.txt)

Commit message:

Added the code example to README.md

README.md, after:

![SendGrid Logo](https://uiux.s3.amazonaws.com/2016-logos/email-logo%402x.png)

[![Travis Badge](https://travis-ci.org/sendgrid/sendgrid-python.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/sendgrid/sendgrid-python)
[![codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/master.svg?style=flat-square&label=Codecov+Coverage)](https://codecov.io/gh/sendgrid/sendgrid-python)
[![Docker Badge](https://img.shields.io/docker/automated/sendgrid/sendgrid-python.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/)
[![Email Notifications Badge](https://dx.sendgrid.com/badge/python)](https://dx.sendgrid.com/newsletter/python)
[![MIT licensed](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](./LICENSE.txt)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/sendgrid.svg?style=social&label=Follow)](https://twitter.com/sendgrid)
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/sendgrid/sendgrid-python.svg)](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/graphs/contributors)
[![Open Source Helpers](https://www.codetriage.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/badges/users.svg)](https://www.codetriage.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python)

**NEW:**

* Subscribe to email [notifications](https://dx.sendgrid.com/newsletter/python) for releases and breaking changes.
* Quickly get started with [Docker](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/tree/master/docker).

**This library allows you to quickly and easily use the SendGrid Web API v3 via Python.**

Version 3.X.X+ of this library provides full support for all SendGrid [Web API v3](https://sendgrid.com/docs/API_Reference/Web_API_v3/index.html) endpoints, including the new [v3 /mail/send](https://sendgrid.com/blog/introducing-v3mailsend-sendgrids-new-mail-endpoint).

This library represents the beginning of a new path for SendGrid. We want this library to be community driven and SendGrid led. We need your help to realize this goal. To help make sure we are building the right things in the right order, we ask that you create [issues](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/issues) and [pull requests](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) or simply upvote or comment on existing issues or pull requests.

Please browse the rest of this README for further detail.

We appreciate your continued support, thank you!

# Table of Contents

* [Installation](#installation)
* [Quick Start](#quick-start)
* [Processing Inbound Email](#inbound)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Use Cases](#use-cases)
* [Announcements](#announcements)
* [Roadmap](#roadmap)
* [How to Contribute](#contribute)
* [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
* [About](#about)
* [License](#license)

<a name="installation"></a>

# Installation

## Prerequisites

- Python version 2.6, 2.7, 3.4, 3.5 or 3.6
- The SendGrid service, starting at the [free level](https://sendgrid.com/free?source=sendgrid-python)

## Setup Environment Variables
### Mac

Update the development environment with your [SENDGRID_API_KEY](https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/api_keys) (more info [here](https://sendgrid.com/docs/User_Guide/Settings/api_keys.html)), for example:

```bash
echo "export SENDGRID_API_KEY='YOUR_API_KEY'" > sendgrid.env
echo "sendgrid.env" >> .gitignore
source ./sendgrid.env
```
SendGrid also supports local environment file `.env`. Copy or rename `.env_sample` into `.env` and update [SENDGRID_API_KEY](https://app.sendgrid.com/settings/api_keys) with your key.

### Windows
Temporarily set the environment variable(accessible only during the current cli session):
```bash
set SENDGRID_API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY
```
Permanently set the environment variable(accessible in all subsequent cli sessions):
```bash
setx SENDGRID_API_KEY "YOUR_API_KEY"
```

## Install Package
```bash
pip install sendgrid
```

## Dependencies

- [Python-HTTP-Client](https://github.com/sendgrid/python-http-client)


<a name="quick-start"></a>
# Quick Start

## Hello Email

The following is the minimum needed code to send an email with the [/mail/send Helper](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/tree/master/sendgrid/helpers/mail) ([here](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/examples/helpers/mail_example.py#L9) is a full example):

### With Mail Helper Class

```python
import sendgrid
import os
from sendgrid.helpers.mail import *

sg = sendgrid.SendGridAPIClient(api_key=os.environ.get('SENDGRID_API_KEY'))
from_email = Email("test@example.com")
to_email = To("test@example.com")
subject = "Sending with SendGrid is Fun"
content = Content("text/plain", "and easy to do anywhere, even with Python")
mail = Mail(from_email, to_email, subject, content)
response = sg.client.mail.send.post(request_body=mail.get())
print(response.status_code)
print(response.body)
print(response.headers)
```

The `Mail` constructor creates a [personalization object](https://sendgrid.com/docs/Classroom/Send/v3_Mail_Send/personalizations.html) for you. [Here](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/examples/helpers/mail_example.py#L16) is an example of how to add it.

### Without Mail Helper Class

The following is the minimum needed code to send an email without the /mail/send Helper ([here](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/examples/mail/mail.py#L27) is a full example):

```python
import sendgrid
import os

sg = sendgrid.SendGridAPIClient(api_key=os.environ.get('SENDGRID_API_KEY'))
data = {
  "personalizations": [
    {
      "to": [
        {
          "email": "test@example.com"
        }
      ],
      "subject": "Sending with SendGrid is Fun"
    }
  ],
  "from": {
    "email": "test@example.com"
  },
  "content": [
    {
      "type": "text/plain",
      "value": "and easy to do anywhere, even with Python"
    }
  ]
}
response = sg.client.mail.send.post(request_body=data)
print(response.status_code)
print(response.body)
print(response.headers)
```

## General v3 Web API Usage (With [Fluent Interface](https://sendgrid.com/blog/using-python-to-implement-a-fluent-interface-to-any-rest-api/))

```python
import sendgrid
import os

sg = sendgrid.SendGridAPIClient(api_key=os.environ.get('SENDGRID_API_KEY'))
response = sg.client.suppression.bounces.get()
print(response.status_code)
print(response.body)
print(response.headers)
```

## General v3 Web API Usage (Without Fluent Interface)

```python
import sendgrid
import os

sg = sendgrid.SendGridAPIClient(api_key=os.environ.get('SENDGRID_API_KEY'))
response = sg.client._("suppression/bounces").get()
print(response.status_code)
print(response.body)
print(response.headers)
```

## Asynchronous Client

To enable asyncio support install the package with `async` extra:

    pip install sendgrid[async]

```python
import asyncio

from sendgrid.async_sendgrid import AsyncSendGridAPIClient
from sendgrid.helpers.mail import *

async def send_message(mail):
    async with AsyncSendGridAPIClient(api_key='SENDGRID_API_KEY') as client:
         await client.send(mail)

from_email = Email("test@example.com")
from_email = Email("mail@k-vinogradov.ru")
to_email = To("kostya.vinogradov@gmail.com")
subject = "Sending with SendGrid is Fun 2"
content = Content("text/plain", "and easy to do anywhere, even with Python")
mail = Mail(from_email, to_email, subject, content)

asyncio.run(send_message(mail))
```

<a name="inbound"></a>
# Processing Inbound Email

Please see [our helper](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/tree/master/sendgrid/helpers/inbound) for utilizing our Inbound Parse webhook.

<a name="usage"></a>
# Usage

- [SendGrid Documentation](https://sendgrid.com/docs/API_Reference/index.html)
- [Library Usage Documentation](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/tree/master/USAGE.md)
- [Example Code](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/tree/master/examples)
- [How-to: Migration from v2 to v3](https://sendgrid.com/docs/Classroom/Send/v3_Mail_Send/how_to_migrate_from_v2_to_v3_mail_send.html)
- [v3 Web API Mail Send Helper](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/tree/master/sendgrid/helpers/mail) - build a request object payload for a v3 /mail/send API call.
- [Processing Inbound Email](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/tree/master/sendgrid/helpers/inbound)

<a name="use-cases"></a>
# Use Cases

[Examples of common API use cases](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/use_cases/README.md), such as how to send an email with a transactional template.

<a name="announcements"></a>
# Announcements

Join an experienced and passionate team that focuses on making an impact. [Opportunities abound](https://sendgrid.com/careers) to grow the product - and grow your career!

Please see our announcement regarding [breaking changes](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/issues/217). Your support is appreciated!

All updates to this library are documented in our [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) and [releases](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/releases). You may also subscribe to email [release notifications](https://dx.sendgrid.com/newsletter/java) for releases and breaking changes.

<a name="roadmap"></a>
# Roadmap

If you are interested in the future direction of this project, please take a look at our open [issues](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/issues) and [pull requests](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/pulls). We would love to hear your feedback.

<a name="contribute"></a>
# How to Contribute

We encourage contribution to our libraries (you might even score some nifty swag), please see our [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) guide for details.

Quick links:

- [Feature Request](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#feature-request)
- [Bug Reports](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#submit-a-bug-report)
- [Improvements to the Codebase](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#improvements-to-the-codebase)
- [Review Pull Requests](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#code-reviews)
- [Sign the CLA to Create a Pull Request](https://cla.sendgrid.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python)

<a name="troubleshooting"></a>
# Troubleshooting

Please see our [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/sendgrid/sendgrid-python/blob/master/TROUBLESHOOTING.md) for common library issues.

<a name="about"></a>
# About

sendgrid-python is guided and supported by the SendGrid Developer Experience Team.

Email the Developer Experience Team [here](mailto:dx@sendgrid.com) in case of any queries.

sendgrid-python is maintained and funded by SendGrid, Inc. The names and logos for sendgrid-python are trademarks of SendGrid, Inc.

<a name="license"></a>
# License
[The MIT License (MIT)](LICENSE.txt)
